## Container Orchestration

#### Container orchestration automates and simplifies provisioning, and deployment and management of containerized applications.
>It is a solution of a set of tools and scripts that helps host containers in a production environment.


### Why Orchestrate Containers?

- A typical contaner orchestration solution consists of multiple Docker Hosts that can host containers, in this way even if one host fails, the application is still available through the other hosts.
- It easily allows to scale up and down the number of containers running in the environment.

### Docker Swarm 
> With Swarm is possible to get multiple docker machines together into a single cluster.
> Swarm will take care of scheduling containers on the different hosts in the cluster, for availability and performance.

Swarm Command  | Description
------------- | -------------
`docker swarm init` | Initialize a swarm cluster on the current host 
`docker swarm join` | Join a swarm cluster as a worker node 
`docker service create --replicas=2 --name web -p 80:80 nginx` | Create a service called web with 2 replicas and expose port 80 on the host 
`docker service ls` | List all services running in the cluster 
`docker service ps web` | List all the containers running for the web service 
`docker service scale web=5` | Scale the web service to 5 containers 
`docker service rm web` | Remove the web service 
`docker swarm leave --force` | Leave the swarm cluster 


### Kubernetes
> Kubernetes is an open-source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications.
> It allows via kubctl, with a single command we can run a 1000 instances of a containerized application.

-   It can be configured to scale up and down the number of containers running in the environment.
-   It can roll out new versions in a rolling update fashion. Roll back to previous version if something goes wrong.
-   Ir provides upgrade on A B testing fashion.

- Provides clusters, which are group of machines (nodes) that run containerized applications.
- Master node is the one that controls the cluster.Watches over and is responsible for the health of the cluster.
  
Kube Command  | Description
------------- | -------------
`kubectl run nginx --image=nginx` | Run a nginx container
`kubectl cluster-info` | Get info about the cluster
`kubectl get nodes` | List all nodes in the cluster
`kubectl get pods` | List all pods in the cluster
`kubectl get services` | List all services in the cluster
`kubectl get deployments` | List all deployments in the cluster
`kubectl create deployment nginx --image=nginx` | Create a deployment called nginx with image nginx
`kubectl expose deployment nginx --port=80 --type=NodePort` | Expose the nginx deployment on port 80
`kubectl scale deployment nginx --replicas=5` | Scale the nginx deployment to 5 replicas
`kubectl set image deployment nginx nginx=nginx:1.9.1` | Update the nginx deployment to use nginx 1.9.1
`kubectl rollout status deployment nginx` | Check the status of the rollout of the nginx deployment
`kubectl rollout undo deployment nginx` | Rollback the nginx deployment to the previous version
`kubectl rollout history deployment nginx` | Check the history of the nginx deployment
`kubectl delete service nginx` | Delete the nginx service
`kubectl delete deployment nginx` | Delete the nginx deployment
`kubectl delete pod nginx-1234567890-abcde` | Delete a specific pod
`kubectl delete pod -l app=nginx` | Delete all pods with the label app=nginx
`kubectl delete all -l app=nginx` | Delete all resources with the label app=nginx
`kubectl get all -l app=nginx` | List all resources with the label app=nginx
`kubectl get all -l app=nginx -o wide` | List all resources with the label app=nginx in wide format
